is this the craziest SEO campaign ever
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning
.com and host the top 100 B2B marketing
podcast business growth show and if you
haven't yet check out my weekly emails
where I share actual website B2B
marketing and SEO tips free goodies
podcasts and more give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email so let me tell
you a quick story I was recently talking
to zendesk's ex-vice president of
marketing and if you haven't heard of
zendesk they provide customer support
software and tools but they wanted a way
to make sure that they showed up top of
Google's organic search results when
prospects were searching for zendesk
Alternatives so every time someone
wanted an alternative to their software
they would still show up and have a
chance to earn that prospects trust and
convince them to go ahead with them so
let me share exactly how they did it
so here's the crazy idea zendesk got all
the team together they put all their
creative thoughts into one and came up
with the idea to create a band and the
name of that band yep you guessed it
zendesk alternative
[Music]
so how did you guys get started me and
Roddy started the band 94 in Seattle
called zendesk what kind of band are you
guys
man so uh what's this album about email
support
some guy stole our name for his computer
company what what kind of company they
make customer support software Benji
shut up
[Music]
look everybody knows we had the name
first
[Music]
so the funny thing is that they created
a website dedicated to zendesk
Alternative and they created a dedicated
YouTube video and in that video they
talk about the annoying fact that
zendesk are trying to take their band
name and then they come through the fact
that zendesk actually strike a deal with
them so they promote the zendesk
software in the song and it's all a bit
of a back and forth a bit of an argument
and they eventually get paid off to do
it but the funny thing is the website
talks about this fact and the beauty of
it is that it's a funny way to engage
prospects so when people are thinking of
perhaps using a competitor or perhaps
want to weigh up the options on those
software tools then there still get a
way to show up top they use humor to
engage audience and earn their trust and
as a result they earn more happy
customers less people went to their
competitors and they drove more inbound
so this campaign was done back in 2015
and back then they held the rankings for
a significant amount of time although
now compare comparison sites like G2 and
similar have overtaken them but even now
if you search on video search on Google
you'll be able to see the video and have
a look for yourself and you can check
out the website zendesk alternative.com
what can you learn from this well in B2B
in SEO your campaigns don't have to be
stuffy get together with your team think
of ways to be creative out of the box
far too many B2B companies want to play
it safe not only will this is a great
way to get people that are thinking
about using an alternative to actually
go ahead with zendesk and stay with them
but also it shows that your Brand's a
bit more personable it's a bit funny
people can relate to you and thus
they're more likely to trust you like
you and go ahead with you so think about
that on your upcoming marketing
campaigns and there you have it if you
enjoyed this short Snappy case study
style of episode why not drop me a
message on LinkedIn as always if you did
subscribe on YouTube or rating on Apple
or Spotify as very much appreciate it
and with that I'll catch you on the next
one cheers